## How to deploy forntend on AWS
Any webside you visit it needs to send back some content. It might be html, css, js file, it might be image... All these files that are not data from the database, are called objects. 
Images, Videos, svg files, jpeg files etc are objects and we should never store them in the conventional databases. Any data we will search upon should be stored in databases.
They should be stored in object stores. AWS have famous object store called S3 (Simple Storage Service). Its like google drive, it gives dashboard and you upload a file and it gives a link where the thing is store.
In s3 there are buckets in that we store the objects.
Distrubution, there are CDN (content delivery networks). Once we have stored the files in object store, that file reached in some aws server lets say in america. And when someone from other country hits the url then it gets to the nearby server in that country and get cached, and everyone in india gets the request from here, nearby server. That is what the content delivery network used to do.
So CDN says, here are many object stores in the world let that be the source of truth, when people ask for that file, dont distribute directly using s3 url, use the cdn url. When you create a cdn you tell it what the source is i.e. the s3 url. Whenever someone hit the cdn linke the cdn goes to the store and caches it Now when someone hits the cdn then it already has the cached data so it provides it really fast at that time. Cloudfront is a famous cdn by aws. It lets you create a cdn. After you create a distribution it gives you distribution url which points to the sorce url(origin name). So when you hit the cdn url the request goes to the closest server which goes to the server where the source is present and brings it to that server and caches it and whenever someone nearby wants the file they gets it from here. CDN what we calls server are technically called pop. So whenver you have object store you usually have cdn associated to it and 
And the conventional database stores: eg. users info, todo info, meta data of videos in yt like app, etc

### CDN
There are many object stores in there. let that be the source of truth, as people ask for file, dont distribute it directly from S3 url, rather use CDN url and tell what the source is...
We create a cloudfront distribution, we give it store and it give the url. Cloudfront has multiple servers around, when we go to the object link(video or image we want), out req goes to the closest cloudfront and it asks S3 the file and caches it, and everyone nearby wanting that file can get it from the cached thing in cloudfront, makes it easy and fast...

CDN creates bunch of POPs(Point of presence). If anyone asks for somehting through the cloudfront url is when there request will be routed to the closest pop. If the pop has it already there it gives it, if it doesnt have it there it gets it from the S3 and caches it.

So we need not just an object store(used for storage) we also need a cdn(used for distribution). you are charged for both of them. Distribution is pritty higher charged.
You dont cache backend in pop, as data people fetch from backend is pretty user specific so it doesnt make sense to cache backend in cdn.

- For frontends, mp4 files, images, Object stores  + CDNs are a better approach.
- You can’t use the same for backends, since every request returns a different response. Caching doesn’t make any sense there. (You can use edge networks for backends (deploy your backend on various servers on the internet) but data can’t be cached in there.)


## Build your React frontend
>
    This approach will not work for frameworks that use Server side rendering (like Next.js)
    This will work for basic React apps, HTML/CSS/JS apps
>

Ypu created a react project and run npm run dev, it will run the project in developer mode, we use it to run the app locally, and this is not the way you deploy the app on the internet, in the end a react app is just a bunch of html, css and js files, and that is what we distribute.
We convert this to html, css and js and then we distribute it. So we build the application to convert it.
Now you run npm run build, that created a dist folder. To run it you can use a module called serve. So, you need to install serve.
"npm install -g serve"
"serve" (go to the dist folder and run)
It serves the project on the local host.
So, serve basically serves all the files in the folder in which you run the serve command.

### Creating an object store in AWS
In AWS, S3 is their object store offering. 
You can create a bucket in there. A bucket represents a logical place where you store all the files of a certain project.
Upload all the files in the dist folder of your react project to S3.
(You might be tempted to open your S3 bucket at this point via s3 link, but don’t, its expensive, its slow. Your S3 bucket should block app public access by default, and you should allow cloudfront (CDN) to access it as you should access the object through cdn)
While making bucket we chose to block all public access, as we dont want people to access things from S3. We want to make cloudfront and make it access the dist in S3 and people access the files from the cdn link.

### Connecting Cloudfront
Step 1 - Create cloudfront distribution
    - Go to cloudfront and create a new distribution. A distribution here means you’re creating a place from where content can be distributed.
Step 2 - Select your S3 bucket as the source
    - Then set origin access to OAC origin access control settings then cloudfront will give you something, which you will put it on the dist in S3.
(Origin Access Control (OAC) is a feature in Cloudfront, which allows you to restrict direct access to the content stored in your origin, such as an Amazon S3 bucket or a web server, ensuring that users can only access the content through the CDN distribution and not by directly accessing the origin URL.)
    - You can enable security protections.
    - Default root object (index.html).
Then at the end of creating the distribution you will be given a policy which you need to paste in the permission section of the s3 bucket.


## Connecting it to your domain
- Edit the alternate domain name section. 
- Write the domain name you own.
- Custom SSL certificate - This is important if you want your final website to be deployed on https.
- Amazon cannot create a certificate for any random domain, the certificate can only be created and deployed if you own that certificate. So you have to show amazon the ownership of that domain and then only amazon will create certificate for it. So you can create certificate by yourself or buy from godaddy or you can ask amazon.
- If you want to create certificate from amazon then you go to the amazon certificate manager  (ACM) and in that fill the things, and then it shows pending validation. To know you own this domain name (as you could have written facebook.com), you have to verify that you own it.
- You go to wherever you have bought that certificate (eg. google domain) you go to dns and can add records add the subdomain(CNAME for subdomains) and value where it should point from amazon acm to the domain dns. Select type that aws says in acm. 
- This was to show that you won that certificate, AWS will hit the subdomain url and try to see did you put it there, thats how they verify that you were able to put it there so you own that.
- After you verify this, aws will be able to generate the certificate, after sometime the status will be issued. 
- Then we attach the created certificate to the cloudfront so that we add our website domain with hppts. 
- When you try to hit the domain then the aws cloudfront wont be able to serve it, we did the verification bit to the domain company (ef. google domain) but we didnt point the domain to the cloudfront url provided. So we add a new record and make the subdomain point to the cloudfront url.
- Thats how you convert your cloudfront url to point your own domain name to it.

**Now you have a https frontend on your own domain dwployed on cloudfront backed by s3 which is a nice production way to deploy frontend applications specifically react or simple html, css and js app**

- Now lets say when you go to web.com/dashboard, it cant find a dashboard file in s3 so it doesnt know where to go. Ideally there is some client side routing out there and s3/cloudfront should always return index.html, even we go to whatever route the req should go to index.html and the js file should see and render that page accordingly. So you reach a error page by cloudfront, to make sure all req reach the index.html add error page that points to index.html
So in the s3 bucket we add error page and select 403 and customize error response and then return them back index.html with a 200 status code. So that when we use dynamic route then the indexx.html page runs which calls js and it figure out further.
Then go to Invalidation section, as the response to the route your trying to reach is cached and to make sure you clear the cache you create invalidation, in the field write "/*".

