# Monorepos

As the name suggests, a single repository (on github lets say) that holds all your frontend, backend, devops code.
Monorepos used because: 
- Shared Code Reuse
- Enhanced Collaboration
- Optimized Builds and CI/CD: Tools like TurboRepo offer smart caching and task execution strategies that can significantly reduce build and testing times.
- Centralized Tooling and Configuration: Managing build tools, linters, formatters, and other configurations is simpler in a monorepo because you can have a single set of tools for the entire project.

Common monorepo framework in Node.js
- Lerna
- nx
- Turborepo - Not exactly a monorepo framework
- Yarn/npm workspaces


Now we have an zod validation object, we can infer it to make a typescript interface or type so that we can use it on the frontend.
Now we have to write reusable code that can be useb at both fe and be.
So make a dir at root called common, bootstarap ts and npm. Make src and create index.ts, change "rootdit" to "src" and "outdir" to "dist" in tsconfig file.
Install zod, make zod types in index.ts and make z.infer and export them.
In old times, previously, the way to make share common code to the fe and be is using registries like npmjs. We put the code at npmjs.
So lets do that way first.
Go to npmjs.com and signup.
(See we dont use relative paths to import as ts will complain that this file is outside src folder, and many more problems will come.)
(can we do input validations at fe only and if its valid then only send it to be? No, People can change the data, use proxy, use postman, its not reliable.)
Now give your package a unique name in package.json. (prefix it with your name to make it unique eg: @varunpjp/common).
Also make the main as "dist/index.js"
Make a .npmignore file add add src into it.
Now its time to publish "npm publish --access=public"
You can see whats published by running "npm pack" in common folder.
Also if you want to make some changes and publish it again then change the version of it.


Now go to the server and client folder and install the npm package in both of them. You now can see the dependencies in each folders.
Now if you import lets say a function signupInput then it will give an error "could not find a declaration file for module."
So there is a third type of file other than .js and .ts file, .d.ts file. Its called the declaration file. You can see any dependency's .d.ts file code, you will see only ts code there.
So just go to the common file's tsconfig file and include "declaration:" true in it. Then you do tsc -b then you can see 2 files in the dist folder.
Now publish and install the the new version common dependency from npm, in both server and client module.

So the .ts file is the combination of .d.ts and .js files.


We can do a thing in which we can import like this syntax what we have seen and rather than uploading it to npm and installing it, we can get it from the root folder common, lets see how:
We use one of many monorepo framework...


# Turborepo
Create a new monorepo: "npx create-turbo@latest"
