# Docker
Docker let’s you:
- containerise your applications.
- run other people’s code + packages in your machine.
- run common software packages inside a container  (For eg - Mongo, Postgres etc)

**Container and Image**
We run node index.js or python a.py these natively or we can run them in container. You can think of container as mini computer inside our computer. It has its own file system, 
it has its own network, its own ports...
We can start continer of postgres or mongodb etc and run them locally and start them on some port in that container.

Where can we get packages from?
Just like you can push your code to Github, you can push images to docker registries.
So we download image of Mongodb or image of postgres by running a command of that image in aur machine and run them in a container.
eg: docker pull mongo
So, you can get an image from docker hub and when you start it then you can say youve started a container.
Image in execution is what is called a container.

**Common commands to know**
1. Running a simple image
eg: "docker run mongo"
- You will notice you can’t open it in MongoDB Compass, Because you havent told it to give all the requests coming to your computer's port 27017 to container's 27017.
- So, you have to add port mapping
"docker run -p 27017:27017 mongo"
- Now requests coming to computer's 27017 will get routed to container's 27017.
- Starting in detached mode. Adding -d will ensure it starts in the background
"docker run -d -p 27017:27017 mongo"

2. Inspecting a container
"docker ps" - This will show you all the containers you are running.

3. Stopping a container
"docker kill <container_id>"- This will stop the container that you are running


To run the postgres:
"docker run -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=mysecretpassword -d -p 5432:5432 postgres"
-e means environment variable.

The connection string for this postgres would be 
"postgresql://postgres:mysecretpassword@localhost:5432/postgres"
The name of the db will be postgres by default, if you want to name the db then:
"docker run -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=mysecretpassword -e POSTGES_USER=varun -d -p 5432:5432 postgres"
then the connection string will be:
"postgresql://varun:mysecretpassword@localhost:5432/varun"
>
You can read this in the documentation of the image in docker hub...
>



1. Dockerfile: Mention the concept of a Dockerfile, which allows you to define how to build a custom image. It contains instructions on how to set up your application environment, including the base image, dependencies, and configuration.

2. Volumes: Discuss Docker volumes, which are used for persistent data storage. For example, you might want to store MongoDB or PostgreSQL data outside the container to avoid data loss when the container is removed. You can use the -v flag to mount a volume.
Example:

`docker run -d -p 27017:27017 -v mongo-data:/data/db mongo`

3. Networks: Introduce Docker networks, which allow you to connect multiple containers together. You can create a bridge network for containers to communicate with each other.

4. Docker Compose: Briefly mention Docker Compose for running multi-container applications using a docker-compose.yml file. This simplifies managing services and their dependencies.

5. Common Commands: 
Include additional commands like:
docker stop <container_id>: Gracefully stops a running container.
docker rm <container_id>: Removes a stopped container.
docker rmi <image_name>: Removes an image from your local machine.
docker logs <container_id>: View the logs of a container.

6. Docker Hub: Explain how Docker Hub is the default registry where you can find and share container images. You might want to include how to create a Docker Hub account for pushing your own images.

7. Best Practices: Mention best practices for creating Docker images, such as keeping images small, using multi-stage builds, and minimizing the number of layers.

8. Security Considerations: Briefly touch on security practices, like using trusted base images, regularly scanning images for vulnerabilities, and running containers with the least privileges.
