When we were using mongo as a database then we can use moongoose as a library, when we are using postgres as database then we can use pg as library. But when you were using pg as a library you have to understand queries syntax, which is hard for a develoeper, queries can get more and more complicated. So we use ORMs. ORM have simpler syntax.
Basically an ORM makes it easy to talk to your database, from your express application. ORM lets you interact with database without worrying too much about the underlying syntax of the database. It provides the ease of writing code. Prisma lets you easyly flip between databases, that is when you want to change the database from postgres to mongodb then your nodejs code will remain the same and prisma will take care of converting the call either to a mongodb call or postgres call.
Prisma provides type safety, means whatever you do user.find or etc whatever value you get has an associated type, which makes it inside vs code or generally in typescript.
One more thing prisma provides in automatic migrations. Means it maintains very long file which has all the database creation queries (like create table queries, update table queries etc) which you can just apply to new database like when you switch from AWS to GCP.

**Prisma unlocks a new level of developer experience when working with databases thanks to its intuitive data model, automated migrations, type-safety and auto-completion.**
- Data Model: A single place where you can write what your database looks like, whats your shape of your data.
- Automated Migrations: A very long file which has your create table queries, alter table queries...
- Type Safety: Gives you types throughout your application so as you are writing code you can get auto-completion in visual studio code.


Prisma let’s you define relationships  to relate tables with each other.
1. Types of relationships
- One to One
- One to Many
- Many to One
- Many to Many
 
user    User    @relation(fields: [userId], references: [id])


see go to the daily code website, either put all things in here, or revise from there everything.