Why does prisma doesnt run out of the box if we are using cloudflare runtime, why we have to do connection pooling?
Prisma doesn’t work out of the box with Cloudflare Workers because it relies on Node.js-specific features that aren’t supported in Cloudflare's environment.
In a serverless setup like Cloudflare, multiple workers can run in different regions, each trying to connect to your database. This can lead to too many open connections, exceeding the database’s limit.
To solve this, we use connection pooling. Instead of each worker connecting directly to the database, they connect to a pool that manages a single connection to the database. This way, all workers share that one connection, preventing overload.
And the second reason has that the prisma library has some dependencies that cloudflare runtime doesnt understand.

Why do you need connection pooling when youre using edge runtime/serverless runtime. Why does a simple prisma project not work in serverless backend specifically in cloudflare workers.
## Serverless backend when connecting to backend
Serverless environments have one big problem when dealing with databases. 
- There can be many connections open to the DB since there can be multiple workers open in various regions. And generally the databases have limit to the max number of open connections they can have.
- And Prisma the library has dependencies that the cloudflare runtime doesn’t understand. example the engine in the prisma client generated in node modeules.(see this)[https://www.prisma.io/docs/accelerate] (and this)[https://www.prisma.io/docs/orm/prisma-client/deployment/edge/deploy-to-cloudflare-workers]



So many workers are connected to the connection pools, and that pool is connected to the database.
And prisma have lets say engine folder in the node_modules, they are heavily relied on nodejs and there are other dependencies there that can run with all runtimes.
So if you want to deploy your website over to cloudflare workers, dont include this dependencies and also maintain a connection pool, have a different postgres connection pool url that your workers connect to and that pool connects to the database.
These are the 2 things prisma expects you to do if youre deploying a Prisma application on cloudflare workers.


Lets revise to initialize a cloudflare project:
- npm create cloudflare@latest
- open in vs code
- you can add hono to it.
- npm install --save-dev prisma
- npx prisma init
- in the schema.prisma, url we're putting is neon or aiven. we'll see eventually, we'll see how we can route the connection through the connection pool
- Prisma orm currently doesnot works on cloudflare workers yet. However, you can use prisma orm on cloudflare workers through Prisma Accelerate.
- So go to Prisma connection pool, create a new pool and enable accelerate and give it that connection string youve got from neon or aiven and select the region near to the database as ideally the database should be near to the pool.
- Then enable accelerate, then generate accelerate connection string and copy it.
- This is what you will use on your worker.
- If you see schema.prisma it want the url from env, and when you are using cloudflare workers a way to inject env variable is by using wrangler.toml file thats is going to get inject inside our application(there you will find a [vars] below which you will paste env).
- Remember: all the url you will be using in index.ts will be in wrangler file and all the url that you will be using from cli will be inside .env. You will be needing the direct url if you are directly connecting to the database for migrations.
- You make a new field in schema.prisma called DIRECT_URL which is the aiven or neon url. You get it from env. You have to prepend "postgres://" before the url. So in .env put the DIRECT_URL env in which you will put the neon or aiven connection link and in schema.prisma below url var put the directUrl env variable too.
- "npm install @prisma/extension-accelerate"
- then generate "npx prisma generate --no-engine" if you want to use it with the cloudflare workers then you need to generate it with the --no-engine flag. It generates with a less bundle size and is optimized for edge environments like Cloudflare Workers.
- then you can add the function to add data in the index.js (see the docs for demo code, prisma.io/docs/orm/prisma-client... webpage)
- then in cli do npx wrangler login
- then you deploy that and open the link, you will see the json prints there.

>
So go to your cloudflare worker, in that settings of that worker, and than in that you can put your env variable there.     
>

So, you will have a worker running routed to the database through the connection pool.
