# Authentication
Authentication is the process of letting users signup/signin into websites via username / password or using SSO (single sign on).

### JWT + local storage auth
You take userid and password from body and sends to the database. The server checks in the database if the password is right, is the user verified, if, then it sends a jwt token which client(browser) stores in the local storage.
Now client need to send the token in every subsequent request that requires authentication. They send the authorization header along, backend decodes it and verifies it as the user.

## Authentication using cookies
Cookies in web development are small pieces of data sent from a website and stored on the user's computer by the user's web browser while the user is browsing. They are designed to be a reliable mechanism for websites to remember things (very similar to local storage)
Session Management: Cookies allow websites to identify users and track their individual session states across multiple pages or visits.
Personalization: Websites use cookies to personalize content and ads. For instance, cookies might store information about a user's preferences, allowing the site to tailor content or advertisements to those interests.
Tracking: Cookies can track users across websites, providing insights into browsing behavior. This information can be used for analytics purposes, to improve website functionality, or for advertising targeting.
Security: Secure cookies can be used to enhance the security of a website by ensuring that the transmission of information is only done over an encrypted connection, helping to prevent unauthorized access to user data.
 
We will be focussing on point 4
Why not local storage?
- Cookies and LocalStorage both provide ways to store data on the client-side, but they serve different purposes and have different characteristics.
- Cookies are send with every request to the website (by the browser) (you don’t have to explicitly add a header to the fetch call). This point becomes super important in Next.js.
    - Cookies can have an expiry attached to them
    - Cookies can be be restricted to only https and to certain domains


You cannot use authorization header thing in nextjs application. The first req that goes out, you cant put the auth header there. 
Nextjs does SSR, the very first req comes to the server has the user data, lets say the users purchases are already rendered in the server and returned back.
In react case it doesnt matter as first req, we hit cdn and gets the bundle files that are same for everyone, and then browser sends req to the backend and gets the token, so in case of react local storage works.
So, you want the user specific data in very first request you need to use cookies. You logout, it clears the cookie. 
And when you sign in the server sends a set cookie header, browser sets it in its set cookies section. You can add restrictions on the cookies like exp time, etc...

### Properties of cookies
- Types of cookies: 
    - Persistent - Stay even if u close the window
    - Session - Go away after the window closes
    - Secure - Sent only over secure, encrypted connections (HTTPS).
- Properties of cookies:    
    HttpOnly - Can not be accessed by client side scripts

    SameSite - Ensures cookies are not send on cross origin requests
        1. Strict
        2. Lax - Only GET requests and on top level navigation
        3. None
- Domains - You can also specify what all domains should the cookie be sent from
 
**CSRF attacks**
Cross site request forgery attacks were super common because of cookies and hence the SameSite attribute was introduced. 
A different site can send request kind of like with axios with the help cookie it got from your website which is dangerous. 
So whenever you are setting cookies, you need to be very strict. You need to restrict domains and use SameSite attribute.
See you think if you restrict the domain then youre good to go, its not that true.
You can select the same site to either None, Restrict, or Lax. None means allow it from anywhere. 
Means the different site can also attach the cookie with it. 
If set to strict then it will be completely different, means strictly the website need to be our website. 
If you dont select anything then the samesite is selected ti none by default. Lax is between none and strict. 
If someone get navigated to our website from third party website, then the cookie wont be sent along and hence redirected to the login page. 
Thats what called top level navigation. So Lax is only get request and on top level navigation. 
Top level navigation means a different website pointed to you at a button to reach your website, and you should allow cookies to be sent on those requests. 
By default selects lax if you dont say anything.

### Using cookies in the backend
So there is a project in Auth folder of my study practice folder. In that there is used the cookies auth. Open that and see notes:
- You need to use a cookie parser to parse the very long cookie string and get the token.
- In cors you need to pass credentials as true(in express if youre using cors and you want cookies to be set you need to pass credentials as true) and origin as the frontend from where the cookies can be set.
You have seen websites in which when you click signin or signup it takes to the .auth domain af that website.
eg: www.varun.comn and it takes to www.auth.varun.com

Now in signin route you check the credentials from the database and then generate a token sign it and return it(in the local storage approach). But in here you simply call 
res.cookie and pass the name of the token and the token. res.cookie("token", token); this function will put the cookie in the Set-Cookie header.


Example in express:
```ts
import express from "express";
import cookieParser from "cookie-parser";
import cors from "cors";
import jwt, { JwtPayload } from "jsonwebtoken";
import path from "path";

const app = express();
app.use(cookieParser());
app.use(express.json());
app.use(cors({
    credentials: true,      //Here if your fe and be are different then you have to set the credentials to true
    origin: "http://localhost:5173"
}));

app.post("/signin", (req, res) => {
    const email = req.body.email;
    const password = req.body.password;
    // do db validations, fetch id of user from db
    const token = jwt.sign({
        id: 1
    }, JWT_SECRET);
    res.cookie("token", token);
    res.send("Logged in!");
});

app.get("/user", (req, res) => {
    const token = req.cookies.token;
    const decoded = jwt.verify(token, JWT_SECRET) as JwtPayload;
    // Get email of the user from the database
    res.send({
        userId: decoded.id
    })
});


app.post("/logout", (req, res) => {
    res.cookie("token", "");    //Similar thing that we do to remove the token from the browser local storage, this time server does it
    // res.clearCookie();  //It can also be used instead of that
    res.json({
        message: "Logged out!"
    })
});

app.listen(3000);
```

Frontend in React
signin page
```tsx
import { useState } from "react"
import { BACKEND_URL } from "../config"
import axios from "axios"

export const Signin = () => {
    const [username, setUsername] = useState("")
    const [password, setPassword] = useState("")

    return <div>
        <input onChange={(e) => {
            setUsername(e.target.value);
        }} type="text" placeholder="username" />
        <input onChange={(e) => {
            setPassword(e.target.value);
        }} type="password" placeholder="password" />
        <button onClick={async () => {
            await axios.post(`${BACKEND_URL}/signin`, {
                username,
                password
            }, {
                withCredentials: true,      //Here you need to do this because this is cross site which means the fe and be run on different domain
            });
            alert("you are logged in")
        }}>Submit</button>
    </div>
}
```
user page
```tsx
import axios from "axios";
import { useEffect, useState } from "react"
import { BACKEND_URL } from "../config";

export const User = () => {
    const [userData, setUserData] = useState();

    useEffect(() => {
        axios.get(`${BACKEND_URL}/user`, {
            withCredentials: true,
          })
            .then(res => {
                setUserData(res.data);
            })
    }, []);

    return <div>
        You're id is {userData?.userId}
        <br /><br />
        <button onClick={() => {
            axios.post(`${BACKEND_URL}/logout`, {}, {
                withCredentials: true,
            })
        }}>Logout</button>
    </div>
}
```
routing:
```tsx
import './App.css'

import { BrowserRouter, Route, Routes } from "react-router-dom";
import { Signup } from './components/Signup';
import { Signin } from './components/Signin';
import { User } from './components/User';

function App() {
  return (
    <BrowserRouter>
      <Routes>
        <Route path={"/signup"} element={<Signup />} />
        <Route path={"/signin"} element={<Signin />} />
        <Route path={"/user"} element={<User />} />
      </Routes>
    </BrowserRouter>
  )
}

export default App
```


Frontend from express:
```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
    <title>Login Page</title>
    <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/axios/dist/axios.min.js"></script>
</head>
<body>

<input id="username" type="text" placeholder="username" />
<input id="password" type="password" placeholder="password" />
<button id="loginButton">Submit</button>
<button id="logoutButton">Logout</button>
<div id="userData"></div>


<script>

    document.getElementById('loginButton').addEventListener('click', async () => {
        const username = document.getElementById('username').value;
        const password = document.getElementById('password').value;
        
        try {
            await axios.post(`/signin`, {
                username,
                password
            });
            alert("You are logged in");
        } catch (error) {
            console.error('Login failed:', error);
            alert("Login failed");
        }
    });

    document.getElementById('logoutButton').addEventListener('click', () => {
        axios.post(`/logout`, {}, {
            withCredentials: true,
        }).then(() => {
            console.log('Logged out successfully.');
        }).catch(error => {
            console.error('Logout failed:', error);
        });
    });

    function fetchUserData() {
        axios.get(`/user`, {
            withCredentials: true,
        }).then(response => {
            const userData = response.data;
            displayUserData(userData);
        }).catch(error => {
            console.error('Failed to fetch user data:', error);
        });
    }

    function displayUserData(userData) {
        const userDataDiv = document.getElementById('userData');
        // Example: Assumes userData contains a 'name' and 'email'. Adapt based on your actual user data structure.
        userDataDiv.innerHTML = `<p>Your id is: ${userData.userId}</p>`;
    }
    fetchUserData();
</script>

</body>
</html>
```
Add a route that sends this html file
```ts
app.get("/", (req, res) => {
    res.sendFile(path.join(__dirname, "../src/index.html"))
})      // This is for when we reach frontend getting served from the express server
```
Remove credentials from cors
```ts
app.use(cors());
```



# NextAuth
NextAuth relies on cookies rather than local storage. As with the first ever request browser sends the cookies by itself and the user specific data is send by the server.
If you have a react application then the first request goes out, the response get has js bundle, its hosted via cdn it doesnt have any user specific things, and when the second
request goes out then you can use the token stored in local storage and send it along with it. In nextjs the first req goes out to your nextjs server and this one need to have 
some authentication information as the nextjs is a server side renderer. Cookies by default will send the information in the first request.
NextAuth is a library that lets you do authentication in Next.js
Popoular choices while doing auth include -
- External provider - 
    https://auth0.com/
    https://clerk.com/
    Firebase auth
- In house using cookies
- NextAuth

NextAuth supports various providers
- Login with email
- Login with google
- Login with facebook

**Catch routes in NextJS:**
You want to catch all the requests that are going out to some routes, in here its, "/app/api/auth/[any route]" 
In nextjs project:
- Create app/api/auth/[...nextauth]/route.ts
```tsx
    import { NextRequest, NextResponse } from "next/server"

    export function GET(req: NextRequest) {
        return NextResponse.json({
            message: "Handler"
        })
    }
```
- Try going to the random endpoints like "localhost:3000/api/auth/random/random2"
- Try logging the sub-routes youre at:
```tsx
    import { NextRequest, NextResponse } from "next/server"

    export function GET(req: NextRequest, { params }: { params: { nextauth: string[] } }) {
        console.log(params.nextauth[0])
        return NextResponse.json({
            message: "Handler"
        })
    }
```
or you can get it in args and do args.params.authRoutes...


### Give NextAuth access to a catch-all
Adding providers - There are three broad types of providers
- OAuth (Login with google, etc...)
- Email (Passwordless Email login via email OTP)
- Credentials (your own strategy)



NextAuth is a session management library. Given you have a user in your database, it will create cookies, manage session, it doesnt takes care of how and where it stores the user.

## Credentials Provider
You write nextauth in the api/auth/[...nextauth]/route.ts file. This library says that.
This page is autogenerated by nextauth based on what credentials you tell it to support.
```ts
import NextAuth from "next-auth"
import CredentialsProvider from 'next-auth/providers/credentials';

const handler = NextAuth({
  providers: [
    CredentialsProvider({
        name: 'Credentials',
        credentials: {
          username: { label: 'email', type: 'text', placeholder: '' },
          password: { label: 'password', type: 'password', placeholder: '' },
        },
        async authorize(credentials: any) {
            
            return {
                id: "user1"
            };
        },
      })
  ],
  secret: process.env.NEXTAUTH_SECRET
})


export const GET = handler;
export const POST = handler;
```
authorize is the function which will be called when you click on the signin button.

Then you hit localhost:3000/api/auth/signin you get a ui given by the nextauth itself.
Where is signup, nextauth is not a user management library, if you need a signup page, create your own signup page, you create it yourself, you write the logic to put the user in your database.
NextAuth is a session management library, it says given you have a user in your database, it will create cookies for you.
When you click on sign in with email option, then control will reach on the authorize function. In which we can write the logic of the authorization by getting the credentials data.
Then you can return the the thigs you want to store in the token.
Also when you click on the signin button then you can see the response you get has a setcookie header, server has returned the cookie.

Now when you are making frontned in that making appbar, then you can make a signin button with routes to "/api/auth/signin".
Or you can use the signIn and signOut funtions provided by the nextauth, and you can call them directly.
Now in .env file you need to store the secrets, the secret that used for jwt tokens. Then you can add the secrets in the handler function after provider.

Next we need to wrap our application inside a SessionProvider which comes from next-auth/react.
So we can wrap children inside the layout.tsx with SessionProvider, but it will be a client component, you need to make a new component that wraps the children with SessionProvider 
and make it client component. 
With this you can remember that whatever providers like SessionProvider, contextAPI, etc you want in your app, you can make a separate file and wrap the children with that.

Now how can we see the user details, which are present in the token:
We can use the useSession hook for client side components.
If you want the user details in the server component then you can use getServerSession hook from next-auth. This function is async function so you have to make the 
parent function async and then await on getServerSession() and then you can use the session in the server component. 
If you want to get the user details in the api endpoint then too you can use getServerSession.

Also one thing when you are getting the user details on the server, client, api you wont be seeing the id that you have returned. So the nextauth bydefault doesnt send everything 
you pass there. If you want to send the id you have to use callback.
Now to persist more data like the userId:
You need to use the nextauth built-in callbacks. So nextauth gives you a bunch of functions inside which you can write some of your own logic.
Like the jwt callback that is called when the jwt token is created. So if you want to make changes to the token or run some logic which you want it to run at the time of 
token creation then you put it in the jwt callback. 
Session callback: See we have seen that the session has the email and username, and the other information, session doesnt contain. So lets say you want the id to be in the 
session too, then you can make changes to the session in session callback.
This is how the fe gets access to the id but backend doesnt. The server side component doesnt have the id, the client side component has.
So getServerSession is not returning the database user/userId. 
So what you have to do is to make the handler logic shift in another file and then pass it to the handler function, and also in every getServerSession function youre 
using in the server side. So when calling getServerSession in a server component or in any server environment, make sure to pass your authOptions as its argument.
Extract the config into a separate file and pass it.


**Adding Google Provider**
Basically you can check the next-auth page for providers. There you can find the in detail steps to add Login with Google/Github/etc...
- First create credentials in google gcp account. Create Credentials > OAuth client ID
- Then along with the credentials provider you need to add google provider too.
You can do it for the github too. Just go and check out the docs, all easy...


**Custon SignUp page**
What if you want to change how your signup page looks 
Add pages to next auth
Ref - https://github.com/code100x/cms/blob/main/src/lib/auth.ts#L207
Add app/signin/page.tsx
Ref - https://github.com/code100x/cms/blob/main/src/app/signin/page.tsx
Ref - https://github.com/code100x/cms/blob/main/src/components/Signin.tsx#L39

```tsx
"use client"
import { signIn } from 'next-auth/react';
import { useRouter } from 'next/navigation';

export default function() {
    const router = useRouter();
    
    return <div>
        <button onClick={async () => {
            await signIn("google");
        }}>Login with google</button>

        <br />
        <button onClick={async () => {
            await signIn("github");
        }}>Login with Github</button>
        <br />
        <button onClick={async () => {
            const res = await signIn("credentials", {
                username: "",
                password: "",
                redirect: false,
            });
            console.log(res);
            router.push("/")
        }}>Login with email</button>
        
    </div>
}
```

So just call the signIn function with the provider name, and it will call the provider on button click.
And to tell next auth that this is the new signup page, you have to, after CredentialsProvider, session, callbacks, add pages in the auth object which youve made.
pages: {
    signIn: "/signin
}