See all the slides of this to see step by step procedure to bootstrap the project.
(click here)[https://projects.100xdevs.com/tracks/Paytm/paytm17-1]


## On Ramping
So finantial apps like Paytm, zerodha etc.. are the apps that are holding your money for you. Which is quiet dangerous as we see, They have a balance of you taken fron your bank. The balance they have is a number stored in the database. There must be good security around that number.
So when you lets say want 2000 in your paytm wallet, to add money you select hdfc net banking. Then paytm says i have a user with this user id, please charge 2000 from its account and send it to the paytm's bank(lets say its linked to kotak bank). So hdfc understands and gives a token to paytm to give it to user. So that when user visits hdfc site with token it understands that it is the customer that paytm was talking about.
Then hdfc takes 2000 from the user's account and tells the paytm backend that i have took 2000 you do +2000 in wallet. Hdfc may be sending paytm's bank 2000 maybe that time or maybe all the payments at once a day. Paytm's backend gets to know that hdfc took 2000 and it adds 2000 in the user's wallet.
This hdfc telling paytm backend is called a webhook. Paytm has a webhook or an api endpoint like internal.paytm.something/hdfc that hdfc can send a req to tell paytm that user you told with id this has paid 2000. Its called a webhook and thats how finantial services talk to banks.

Eg: lets say you go to makemytrip website and select a hotel for 10000 and select sbi bank net banking to pay and click pay now. Then number 1 request go to mmt server that i want to charge 10000 rupees to the user with id 1. It tells sbi servers i have a user with mmt id 1 and he want to pay 10000 to me please give me a url with a token. Sbi gives a link like netbanking.sbi.com/something?token=.... whoever you want to charge 10000 rupees send them here. MMT backend sends this url to user browser and it redirects the user to this link.
User enter credentials and pays. Then the sbi server will tell the zerodha server that the id 1 user had paid please give them the service they have asked for, i will transfer the amount to mmt bank in lets say icici bank. So sbi server directly talks to the mmt server. And mmt server redirect the user to the bill recipt page. Mmt frontend doesnt talk to the mmt server, as user can give a modified request or something which is not safe.

So hdfc send zerodha a req or api that i have send 2000 to paytm's bank, so credit it to the user's wallet, so why cant someone mock the req and keep crediting. Because hdfc also sends a password that is shared between paytm backend and hdfc so that it understands that the req came from the hdfc only.





"npx prisma db seed", it means when you start database your db is completely empty, there is no data in the table. So its a good idea to seed some dummy data in there.
prisma.user.upsert means insert the data and if the data is already there then insert that data. Because you might run create again and again and it will give conflict.