How can you, given a monorepo, which has 2 next projects 1 express project, deploy to ec2 using ci/cd.

#### Continuous Integration
Continuous Integration (CI) is a development practice where developers frequently integrate their code changes into a shared repository, preferably several times a day. Each integration is automatically verified by:
    - Building the project and 
    - Running automated tests.
This process allows teams to detect problems early, improve software quality, and reduce the time it takes to validate and release new software updates.
#### Continuous Deployment
Its deploying code continuously to various environments (dev/stage/prod). Eg: Its deploying automatically from github to wherever youve hosted your project. anytime there is a commit that is happening to the main branch, it automatically deploys to an ec2 instance lets say.


## CI
For Github, you can add all your pipelines to .github/workflows:
(SEE THIS)[https://www.notion.so/image/https%3A%2F%2Fprod-files-secure.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com%2F085e8ad8-528e-47d7-8922-a23dc4016453%2F604e322e-77ba-4a33-a0ab-9252321ef0fa%2FScreenshot_2024-03-31_at_4.23.03_PM.png?table=block&id=da42c1d0-4cb7-40a7-b7a6-c88914f2caeb&cache=v2]


```yml
name: Build on PR

on: 
    pull_request:
        branches:
            - master

jobs:
    build:
        runs-on: ubuntu-latest
        steps:
            - uses: actions/checkout@v3
            - name: Use Node.js
              uses: actions/setup-node@v3
              with:
                node-version: '20'

            - name: Install Dependencies
              run: npm install
            
            - name: Generate prisma client
              run: npm run db:generate

            - name: Run Build
              run: npm run build
            
```

Lets say you made a open source project. Now you want everyone in the world to contribute to it. So people start to create pull request. Lets say there code is not linted properly, there code breaks the final repository.
So you made a .github folder in that workflows folder and in that build.yml file. Now we tell github that anytime a pull request comes comes on master branch please run jobs:
we have mentioned in the yml file, build job, which runs on a ubuntu machine and it does all the steps mentioned. It clones the repository of the user "runs-on: ubuntu-latest steps: - uses: actions/checkout@v3" it clones the repository of the user with there changes in the pull request. (These are the actions made by some people which you can use.) So all the code reaches to the ubuntu machine.
After code cloned, you install nodejs by runing another action "- name: Use Node.js uses: actions/setup-node@v3 with: node-version: '20'". Then we install dependencies by running commands, and further commands as needful.
So when we create a pull request, a workflow starts automatically. Now there is an error came in the repo were working on. Its the prisma client generate. 
So we add that command in the yml file. In package json add a script called, "db:generate": "cd packages/db && npx prisma generate && cd ../.." and commit this change in the main branch. Now when we create a pull request the build shouldnt fail.

```yml
name: Linting and formatting on PR
on:
  pull_request:
    branches:
      - '**'
    
jobs:

  Continuous-Integration:

    name: Performs linting, formatting on the application
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Checkout the Repository
        uses: actions/checkout@v3

      - name: Install Dependencies
        run: npm install --legacy-peer-deps

      - name: Run linting check
        run: npm run lint:check

      - name: Check formatting
        run: npm run format:check
```


## CD
- Create dockerfiles for the apps you have
We have took example of our propayn project. Lets dockerise the user app.
```Dockerfile
    FROM node:20.12.0-alpine3.19

    WORKDIR /user/src/app

    COPY package.json package-lock.json turbo.json tsconfig.json ./

    COPY apps ./apps
    COPY packages ./packages

    # Install dependencies
    RUN npm install
    # Can you add a script to the global package.json that does this?
    RUN npm run db:generate

    # Can you filter the build down to just one app?
    RUN npm run build

    CMD ["npm", "run", "start-user-app"]
```
