## Middlewares in nextjs
Middlewares are code that runs before/after your request handler.
The biggest usecase of middlewares is just authentication, which nextauth takses care of.
Other use case are Analysis, Redurecting the user.

Middleware allows you to run code before a request is completed. Then based on the incoming request, you can modify the response by rewriting, redirecting, modifying the request or response header, or responding directly.

The fe req is been handled by nextjs so redirecting is imp here. But not in express, no point there.
You can see the authentication and authorization that can be made using middlewares in nextjs (go see nextjs docs, how can you manually set cookies).

Create a middleware.ts in the root folder. Nextjs expects a single file for middleware.
NOTE: While only one middleware .ts file is supported per project, you can still organise your middleware logic modularly. Break out middleware functionalities into separate .ts or .js files and import them into your main middleware.ts files. This allow for cleaner management of route-specific middleware, aggregated in the middleware.ts for centralised control. By enforcing a single middleware file, it simplifies configuration, prevent potential conflicts, and optimizes performance by avoiding multiple middleware layers.

In this middleware.ts file you write all the logic that you want to run before hitting your `frontend` endpoint or any of the `backend` endpoint.

Lets say we want to count number of requests in nextapp:
- make a top level middleware.ts file
- code:
```ts
import { NextRequest, NextResponse } from "next/server";

let requestCount = 0;

export function middleware(req: NextRequest, ) {
    requestCount++;
    const res = NextResponse.next();
    console.log("request count: ", requestCount);
    return res;
}
```
- make a /api/route.ts file
```ts
export function GET() {
    return NextResponse.json({
        message: "You are logged in!"
    })
}
```

we need not to do app.use, as nextjs does file based routing so it understands that the middleware logic is where.

- Now as it runs on all the routes, as we only want it to run on /api/user route then?
You have to write like this in the middleware.ts file:
```ts
export const config = {
    matches: "/api/:path*",
}
```
But you can put only one thing here, what if you want to run some logic to some route and some other logic to some other route.
So you selectively runs logic with the help of some if statements.


Lets say we want to make sure people redirected to /signin page when they hit the /admin page.
Now in react app, when some one hit the /admin page we can redirect them from the frontend to /signin page but, when you hit the /admin endpoint, you still get the frontend of the /admin and then somewhere in your javascript logic, you redirect the user to the /signin page. For minute time you still get back the admin page.
Thats a security vulnerability. The req for /admin will return the user an index.html and in that there might be a index.js that redirect the user.
In nextjs out very first request gets back 307 status, that is redirect which is secure.

#### Selectively running middlewares
```ts
import { NextResponse } from 'next/server';
import type { NextRequest } from 'next/server';

export function middleware(request: NextRequest) {
    console.log(request.nextUrl.pathname);
    if (request.nextUrl.pathname.startsWith('/admin')) {
        return NextResponse.redirect(new URL('/signin', request.url))
    }

    if(request.nextUrl.pathname.startsWith('/dashboard')) {
        return NextResponse.next()
    }
}
```