### Client Side Rendering
- Client side rendering CSR is a modern technique used in web development where the rendering of a web page is performed in the browser using javascript. Instead of server rendering a full rendered html page to the client.
- React came and, you create a bunch of components and render them from app.jsx. Reacts code runs inside the browser which is also called the client and hence the term client side rendering.
- You hit a react website, you get empty html with script tag pointed to js file, then send another req to get back the js file. While then there is white page for a very small time. So, CSR is html being injected into the dom on the client.
- Its not SEO optimized.
- User sees a flash before the page renders
- Waterfalling Problem (you're sending req after req sequentially)


### Server Side Rendering
- When the rendering process (converting javascript component into html) happens on server it's called SSR.
- When you hit a nextjs app then the server side renders the page, converts into html on the server and the first index.html page you get is populated, pre rendered on the server, contain the full page/ user specific info too.

When we are discussing csr/ssr dont run the app in dev mode, run in production mode. That is build then project and run the build.
- SSR is expensive since every request needs ti rebder on the server.
- Harder to scale, you cant cache to CDN.
Now how to make this server side rendering less expensive?


### Static Site Generation
If a page uses a static generation the page html is generated at build time. That means in production, the page html is generated when you run build. This html will then be reused on each request. It can be a cached by a CDN.
Now lets say the landing page of your website is expensive and its same for everyone, what if we can render this page only once and anytime someone asks for this page we give them the rendered one. We should statically generate this page on build time as everying is going to see the same page.
By default if you have a component where every thing is static then that page is by default static generated.
Eg: if you put a log in the page and then build the app then in build process, in console you'll see that log, which tells that that page is statically generated. And hitting that website if you refresh it you wont see th log, that log doesnt run, it tells us that its not rerendering anything, the site has been statically generated which is served again and again.
- Now how can you clear the cache, what if this server has sensitive data that you need cleared every few seconds. Then you can pass it bunch of options:
```js
const res = await fetch('http://varuntd.com/todos', {
    next: { revalidate: 10 }
})
```
Now if there is difference of 10 sec then it will refetch the response.
One more thing you can do is revalidate the cache, 
```ts
import { revalidateTag } from 'next/cache'

const res = await fetch('https://sum-server.100xdevs.com/todos', { next: { tags: ['todos'] } })
```

```ts
'use server'
 
import { revalidateTag } from 'next/cache'
 
export default async function revalidate() {
  revalidateTag('todos')
}
```
You can see docs to know how to statically generate the dynamic routes.