# Serverless

Our code executes on server only. Serverless are provided by many platforms, google, amazon etc.
In servered architecture, we have to manage the machine, we have to configure it, add OS to it etc... If traffic grows then we have to make autoscaling group to scaleup and scale down. So we have to do everything. Here its costly as price is per hour basis. Here server's up 100 per of the time.
In serverless, like AWS lambda, you give your code to amazon then amazon decided everything. Here the bill comes per invocation. Here the code's up and start when the user calls it after that the code sleeps. So when there is no traffic on the server then there will not be any bill there. Serverless infra automatically scales up and scales down.
The bill of serverless comes for the no. of invocations and duration of the code ran.
Serverless is slow as compared to servered arch as it has cold start problem. 
Its stateless, means lets say you have mongoDB database connection in code, when the BE is called by user then the mongo connection is established with the backend, and then data fetched. Now if there are 10000 users comes suddenly then the aws lambda tries to establish 10000 connections at once to get the data which can increase the mongodb bill.
Because serverless is stateless then you can't make socket connections in this. Like in EC2 you make a connection pool, so if many users comes then you can reuse that connection for db communication, also you can make socket connections because you have state. But in serverless it makes variables, make connection and after work done it deletes the whole state. For this you have to use like redis or make your own state machine.


## AWS Lambda
We link routes to lambda functions such that the particular lambda function invokes for particular route fetch.
We can use "serverless" named framework, it works with gcp, azure, aws etc. 
So go to the serverless framework get started page and follow the commands. Then open vs code and maek a serverless project with templates. Then in .yml file you write the configurations and make files in which you write the handler functions. And configure those functions in yml file. 
Now to deploy at aws, we make the user access in IAM service and give necessary permissions/attach policies (like administrations). Now we go to the security credentials of that user and we create access key for CLI, and we get an access key and a secret key. Now we set these keys in env variables (you can see in the documentations of serverless framewor). Now when its deployed then it gives an access url for that backend, and it also makes a function in lambda. You can go to lambda service to see that function.
