# EC2 - Elastic Compute Version 2
We have to launch Instance, name it, then select OS, then select OS version, then Instance type (size of machine).
Then we make the key (if lost you cant recover it and if someone got this then your instance is hacked).
Then you allow SSH traffic, means from where you can access the instance (if you select from my IP then you can ssh connect to instance from that IP only, so if someone else has key then they need to access from your IP, BUT, home IP are not static, they are dynamic, in companies usually they have dedicated IP so they are static).
Now lets launch an Instance and wait.
Now we get the details of our machine. We get private and public IP to access that instance. Auto asigned IP means the IP we get, is not static, its dynamic. So we need a static IP.
To get static IP we go to the Elastic IPs (at left side bar), and we allocate a new IP addess. Now its not being using so AWS charges it, now if we connect it with the machine then its being used so no charges. So, we associate this IP addess to the instance.
Now this IP address of instance wont be changed.
We can now connect with the instance, with various ways.

Lets do ssh into the instance with our machine. Now firstly we have to give it permission 400. 
Then we connect to the machine by command: "ssh -i varunInstanceKey.pem ubuntu@12.34.567.89"
Now we are connected to the ubuntu machine.

## Security Group in Instances
VPC - Its virtual private cloud. Whenever we create any resource in AWS then we create that resource inside a VPC. It has a gateway where the traffic enters. In VPC we have subnets, they may be public or private subnets. In these subnets we have ec2 instances.
So every subnet has its stateless Network ACLs its kind of a security. So the network packet passes through the gateway to enter the VPC and then to enter into the subnet it passes through the NACL(it passes if it passes the inbound rules, NACL has its own very strict security). Then to interact with the ec2 instance (ec2 instance has its security group) the network packet should pass the statefull inbound rule of security group and then it can enter the ec2 instance.
The ec2 instance checks the incoming network packet only not the outgoing packets. So to go through the NACL, NACL checks the outgoing packets too. It has outbound rules for that.

Now the default security group allows port 22, port no 22 is for ssh. Port 443 is for https, and port 80 is for http.
We can make our own security groups and we can attach more security group to instance.

Now make a small express project and add it to the virtual machine then add npm to it (google for everything), then npm install and run the backend.
Then try to access that port, but you'll see that the req is stuck there. As that port youre trying to access, you havent open it for public access.
So go to security group and create an Custom TCP inbound rule.



## NIC
Any machine that needs to connect to internet needs a NIC card in it.
So the instance we have, has a Virtual Network Instance. So we can create a Network Interface for our EC2 instance, from left options bar.
